REVIEW: "Amercian Rumble" Film By Chris Eissing

On Halloween 2000, Spindrift Records USA UK invited thousands of psychos from all over the world to gather at the Birch Hill in Old Bridge, NJ for the first New York Big Psychobilly Rumble.

There has never been anything of its kind before. It would be three days of Psychobilly, Surf, Garage, Rockabilly and Mayhem... caught on film.

This is how "American Rumble" starts. Being a fan, student, and artist in music and film, "American Rumble" offered a tantalizing opportunity to fill in the gaps of my understanding and awareness of psychobilly, and to see the film makers work their magic to enlighten and entertain an even less aware audience with the music, story and history of this genre and subculture.

Documentaries of subcultures are sought to gain understanding of people and places that are foreboding, unapproachable or unwelcoming in their day-to-day reality. "American Rumble" puts the ownership of familiarity and understanding of the subject matter on the audience. For this, it can best be appreciated by fans who already have a relationship and knowledge of the music, the bands represented, and the lifestyle.

"American Rumble" is a daring and commendable attempt to open the viewer to the world of psychobilly. Filming a 3-day festival under any condition, especially those of a small club, and creating a work that gives equal justice to all those participating, all while trying to document surrounding events, is a monumental undertaking. When successful films like this are held up along Woodstock and "Gimme Shelter" and stand not only as musical entertainment, but as time capsules capturing the surrounding social tapestry.

Compared to other alternative-music subculture films like "Another State of Mind" or "The Filth and The Fury" it pales as a documentary failing to give insight or allow the audience to become intimate with the personalities or the history of the subject matter. As a concert film it is frustrating for its disjointed flow and incomplete coverage of the individual performances. It does stand up as a document of an event, and for as much as it does not successfully attain all it reaches for, it points its cameras down enough avenues to show that psychobilly is a diverse and vibrant subculture whose entirety would be nearly impossible to capture in a single film.

--- 
Originally published in Legends Magazine #121.
Edited for space & content by Marcus Pan.
