DVD Review "War Between the Planets" By JHR

In the future, all cars will look like glass-domed MG Midgets with huge vertical fins and be driven by people with bad haircuts within a city that looks like the inside of a Wurlitzer jukebox. Tom Ellard from Severed Heads is employed in reading the news to white-coated scientists. You can tell the film was originally Italian by the Futurist Autogyro and school-of-Bonestall rocketry.

It's also nice to see Alvin Stardust still getting work, even if he does have to wear a corset and be short with the local equivalent of Diana Rigg. Were I her, the universe would be a strange place, but I'd roshambo the arrogant bugger with those splendid boots and then flounce off for a nice pint of gin.

Hm. In the future, all the people with really bad haircuts will be forced to wear a red triangle on their fascist-fetish uniforms to indicate the nature of their StyleCrime. Meanwhile, back in space, drainpipe-legged spacesuits are in this season, which really isn't a flattering look if you're a trifle broad in the beam like our Diana.

Hello, Alvin's overcome with horror at the state of someone's haircut and, corset or not, hands out a manly shoeing while half-clad in the shower. Unfortunately, Diana comes in before things can become properly homoerotic. Apparently, if she and Alvin don't sort their differences out, there'll be no priests for some inadequately explored reason. Perhaps they're all off driving finned bubble-cars.

It's becoming increasingly obvious that Alvin has all the charisma and leadership acumen of a management consultant, since he's gone off to do something stupid in expensive rockets for no particular good reason. Perhaps to escape the arrival of his fiancé with the particularly terrible haircut, perhaps because he's planning to set up end-to-end TQM processes.

As the alleged tension mounts, Alvin becomes more and more pointy-haired. He sets up a cross-discipline team to report on the farting planet, instructing them on deliverables while playing carelessly with antimatter. As is traditional, if you've got a shiny red helmet, you're completely hosed.

For reasons unknown, they're now wandering round the insides of a sentient discotheque to the sound of Heart and cat-torturing. A vast sponge wearing a boob-tube seems to be menacing them, which is too much for the gin-soaked Diana who lobs away some vital component in frustration over the nonsensical plot and grimly Hoxtonite loungecore soundtrack.

Blast. An opportunity to allow Alvin to kill himself has been avoided. This is most unsatisfactory. And Lord alone knows why Diana's dragging the bugger to safety. No, I'm sorry. This is making even less sense.

Oh, hello. They've found all the priests again. Jolly good. The earth is now safe for rubbish haircuts.

--- 
Originally published in Legends #161.
Edited by Marcus Pan.
